The Project Gutenberg eBook of Uncle Wiggily's June Bug Friends, by
Howard R. Garis

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Uncle Wiggily's June Bug Friends
       How the June Bugs Brought Joy to Uncle Wiggily and The Skillery
       Scallery Alligator Also How Uncle Wiggily Picked Some Flowers

Author: Howard R. Garis

Illustrator: Lang Campbell

Release Date: April 23, 2023 [eBook #70627]

Language: English

Produced by: Bob Taylor, David Edwards and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK UNCLE WIGGILY'S JUNE BUG
FRIENDS ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_




[Illustration:

  This little book
  is from the library of

  [Illustration: Rabbit holding hat]

  __________________
  __________________
  __________________

  When you have read, and laughed with glee
  Please bring this book right back to me.
]




  UNCLE WIGGILY’S
  JUNE BUG FRIENDS

  or

  HOW THE JUNE BUGS BROUGHT JOY TO UNCLE WIGGILY;
  AND THE SKILLERY SCALLERY ALLIGATOR ALSO
  HOW UNCLE WIGGILY PICKED SOME FLOWERS

  [Illustration: Uncle Wiggily running]

  TEXT BY
  HOWARD R. GARIS
  Author of THREE LITTLE TRIPPERTROTS and BED TIME STORIES

  PICTURED BY
  LANG CAMPBELL

  NEWARK, N. J.
  CHARLES E. GRAHAM & CO.
  NEW YORK




IF YOU LIKE THIS FUNNY LITTLE PICTURE BOOK ABOUT THE BUNNY RABBIT
GENTLEMAN YOU MAY BE GLAD TO KNOW THERE ARE OTHERS.


So if the spoon holder doesn’t go down cellar and take the coal
shovel away from the gas stove, you may read

   1 UNCLE WIGGILY’S AUTO SLED.
   2 UNCLE WIGGILY’S SNOW MAN.
   3 UNCLE WIGGILY’S HOLIDAYS.
   4 UNCLE WIGGILY’S APPLE ROAST.
   5 UNCLE WIGGILY’S PICNIC.
   6 UNCLE WIGGILY’S FISHING TRIP.
   7 UNCLE WIGGILY’S JUNE BUG FRIENDS.
   8 UNCLE WIGGILY’S VISIT TO THE FARM.
   9 UNCLE WIGGILY’S SILK HAT.
  10 UNCLE WIGGILY, INDIAN HUNTER.
  11 UNCLE WIGGILY’S ICE CREAM PARTY.
  12 UNCLE WIGGILY’S WOODLAND GAMES.
  13 UNCLE WIGGILY ON THE FLYING RUG.
  14 UNCLE WIGGILY AT THE BEACH.
  15 UNCLE WIGGILY AND THE PIRATES.
  16 UNCLE WIGGILY’S FUNNY AUTO.
  17 UNCLE WIGGILY ON ROLLER SKATES.
  18 UNCLE WIGGILY GOES SWIMMING.

Every book has three stories, including the title story.

[Illustration:

  _Uncle Wiggily_(signature)         HIS MARK
]


  _Made in U. S. A._

  Copyright 1919 McClure Newspaper Syndicate. Trade mark registered.
  Copyright 1920, 1922, 1924 Charles E. Graham & Co., Newark, N. J.,
    and New York.


[Illustration: June bug]


One evening, after Uncle Wiggily, the nice bunny rabbit gentleman,
had been out all day, looking in the woods for adventures, he came
home to his hollow stump bungalow. He and Nurse Jane Fuzzy Wuzzy sat
down to read. It was a warm night and the window was open. All of a
sudden there was a loud buzzing sound in the room. “What’s that?”
asked Uncle Wiggily, looking over his glasses. “Oh, it’s a big June
Bug!” cried Nurse Jane. “The largest I have even seen! Oh, if it gets
tangled in my hair I’ll never get it out!”

[Illustration: June bug]

“Nonsense, Nurse Jane! A June Bug cannot harm you,” said Uncle
Wiggily. But the muskrat lady grew very excited. She stood up on a
chair and flapped her paper at the Bug. Uncle Wiggily took his tall
silk hat in one paw and the tea strainer in the other and said he
would catch the buzzing creature and let him sleep in the pansy bed.
“There’s no harm in him,” said the bunny, “and who knows when you
may want a June Bug to do you a favor?” After a while Uncle Wiggily
caught the insect and gently put him to bed.

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily with Nannie and Billie]

The next day, after Uncle Wiggily had been so kind to the June Bug,
putting him in the pansy bed, the rabbit gentleman was out walking
in the woods with Nannie and Billie Wagtail, the two goat children.
“Tell us more about the funny June Bug, Uncle Wiggily,” bleated
Billie. “He was funny, but Nurse Jane was afraid of him,” said Uncle
Wiggily, laughing. “I caught him in the tea strainer and gave him
some sugar. He said he would do me a favor some day, if he could. But
wait a minute. That looks like danger ahead!”

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily with Nannie and Billie]

Uncle Wiggily, Nannie and Billie Wagtail came to a stop just at the
edge where some sticks were criss-crossed on the woodland path.
The bunny thought it was a trap and it was. All of a sudden Uncle
Wiggily, Billie and Nannie fell into a deep pit which the bad
Bazumpus had dug, hoping to catch the bunny. “Oh, dear!” bleated the
little goat girl. “If ever we wanted help it is now! Where is that
June Bug, Uncle Wiggily?” Billie tried to scramble out by digging his
horns in the side of the pit, but could not. Oh, what trouble!

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily with Nannie and Billie]

After Uncle Wiggily, Billie and Nannie had tried to get out of the
pit, only to find themselves slipping back all the while, they
suddenly heard a buzzing sound up above them, and there was the June
Bug. “I want to thank you again, Uncle Wiggily, for being so kind to
me last night,” buzzed the Bug. “I saw you fall into this pit, as I
was flying away from your bungalow a little while ago. Now I am going
to help you out.” Billie Wagtail shook his horns. “I don’t see how
even a big June Bug can help us,” he said. “Oh, dear!”

[Illustration: Lots of June bugs]

After the June Bug had looked down in the pit the Bazumpus had dug,
the insect flew away, saying: “I’ll soon be back with a lot of my
sisters, brothers, cousins, uncles and aunts, and we’ll get you out
of the pit, Uncle Wiggily.” The bunny said that would be very kind.
So the June Bug fluttered his wings and whistled on his hind legs
and hundreds of other bugs buzzed up to see what was the matter. “We
must make a ladder of grass stems so Uncle Wiggily can get out of the
pit,” said the big June Bug.

[Illustration: June bugs left Uncle Wiggily]

Buzzing their wings, and weaving with their legs, the kind June Bugs
soon made a long, strong grass ladder. “Now,” said the big June Bug,
“we will carry it to the pit, lower it down, fasten the upper end to
a tree, and Uncle Wiggily, Nannie and Billie can climb out.” The bad
old Bazumpus, and his club, by which he hoped to knock some souse
off Uncle Wiggily’s ears, saw the bugs marching along with the grass
ladder. “I wonder what they are going to do?” thought the bad chap.
“I must watch and see.”

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily and goat children]

Reaching the pit, in which were Uncle Wiggily and the goat children,
the June Bugs fastened the ladder so it would not slip, and tossed
the other end down in the hole. Then Nannie and Billie climbed up,
and then it was Uncle Wiggily’s turn. “See, Billie, I told you a June
Bug could help us,” said the bunny gentleman, as he got to the top
of the pit. “But who dug that hole?” asked Mr. Longears. “It was the
Bazumpus!” buzzed the largest June Bug. “Yes, and there he is now!”
cried Nannie, as she saw the bad creature. “Look!”

[Illustration:

  LANG
  CAMPBELL
  6-6-20
]

As soon as the rabbit was safely out of the pit, the biggest June Bug
cried: “Now, my friends, since we have saved Uncle Wiggily and paid
him back for the favor he did me, chase the Bazumpus!” And all the
Bugs chased the bad chap, tickling him with long spears of grass so
that he ran away as fast as he could go. Nannie and Billie danced for
joy because their bunny uncle was saved, and Mr. Longears shook paws
with the big June Bug and invited him to come to dinner that day. So
everybody was happy but the Bazumpus.

  And if the Ironing board doesn’t jump on the back of the horse
  radish, and ride into the blue water of the laundry tubs, the next
  pictures and story will tell how

[Illustration: Alligator wearing paint can]

  UNCLE WIGGILY PAINTED HIS BUNGALOW: SEE THE LADDER SLIP! SEE THE
  LADDER FALL! BUT DEAR OLD UNCLE WIGGILY WAS SCARCELY SCRATCHED AT
  ALL! BUT THE ALLIGATOR! OH MY!

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily on ladder painting]

“Nurse Jane ought to like the bungalow much better after I paint it
sky blue pink,” said Uncle Wiggily as he stood on a ladder putting
some dabs of color on his hollow stump house. “I hope nothing happens
when I am up here. If I should fall in the pots of paints I’d look
like some scrambled Easter eggs.” Uncle Wiggily had used up nearly
all the color in one pot when he saw Billie Wagtail, the goat, and
Jackie and Peetie Bow Wow coming along. “I’ll ask one of them to hand
me another pot of paint,” said the bunny.

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily on ladder with goat]

“Hello, boys!” called Uncle Wiggily, as Billie, Jackie and Peetie
came near. “Will one of you please hand me up another pot of red
paint? My can is almost empty.” Billie the goat said he’d bring up
some red paint, but, instead, just for a joke, he took up some green
paint to Uncle Wiggily. “Won’t he be surprised when he starts daubing
green paint over where he put the red,” said Jackie to Peetie. “It
will be a good joke,” agreed Peetie. “But I hope he doesn’t get mad
at us.”

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily with green paint]

Uncle Wiggily was so busy talking to Billie, Jackie and Peetie that
the bunny rabbit never noticed the color of the paint the goat boy
handed up to him. And, before he knew it, Mr. Longears had daubed
some green color on where it ought to have been red. “Oh my! Nurse
Jane will not like this a bit!” cried Uncle Wiggily. “I did it for a
joke!” laughed Billie. “Wait a minute and I’ll hand you up the right
color.” Nearer and nearer came the skillery-scallery alligator.

[Illustration: Alligator trying to get Uncle Wiggily]

All of a sudden, as Billie was getting ready to take up the right pot
of red paint, up rushed the funny old skillery scallery alligator,
with the double jointed tail. “Ah ha, Mr. Longears! At last I have
you!” cried the ’gator. “Come down off that ladder until I nibble a
bit of your souse!” Uncle Wiggily was so surprised that he spilled
some paint on Jackie, Peetie and Billie. But still the bunny rabbit
gentleman would not come down to have his souse nibbled.

[Illustration: Alligator lifts ladder]

“Well, if you won’t come down nice and pretty when I tell you to, so
I may have some of your souse, I’ll make you tumble!” said the bad
’gator to Uncle Wiggily. Then the unpleasant chap yanked the ladder
out from the side of the hollow stump bungalow and the bunny rabbit
gentleman began to fall. “Oh, I am almost sure I am going to have an
adventure this time!” cried Uncle Wiggily. “Something is going to
happen!” And Billie, Jackie and Peetie thought the same thing.

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily ends up in a tree]

The skillery scallery alligator pulled the ladder so hard, hoping to
make Uncle Wiggily fall, that the ladder toppled into a tree near by.
Uncle Wiggily gave a jump and landed on one of the branches. “Are
you coming down out of that and let me nibble your souse?” asked the
snippy-snappy ’gator. Uncle Wiggily said he was not. “Then with my
rough nutmeg grater tail I’ll saw down the tree and get you anyhow,”
snarled the bad chap. “I’ll saw the tree down and get your souse!”

[Illustration: Alligator sawing tree]

“Indeed I am not coming down and let you have any of my souse!” said
Uncle Wiggily to the bad ’gator at the foot of the tree. “Very well
then, now I’ll begin to saw!” gargled the bad chap. So with his tail,
which was just like a saw, he began to cut down the tree. “Oh, we
must save Uncle Wiggily!” whispered Billie the goat. “Yes, but how
can we?” asked Jackie. “I know,” barked Peetie. “We’ll paint the
alligator’s tail red, and he’ll think he has the nose-bleed!”

[Illustration: Alligator gets painted]

All of a sudden, when the alligator had the tree almost sawed
through, and it was beginning to fall with Uncle Wiggily in it, the
three animal boys rushed up with their pots of paint. “Splatter him
good!” barked Jackie, and he and Peetie and Billie splashed different
kinds of paint on the bad ’gator. “Oh my goodness me!” grunted the
skillery scallery chap. “This will spoil my complexion! This is no
place for me! I’ll get Uncle Wiggily’s souse some other time, I
guess.”

[Illustration:

  LANG CAMPBELL
  7-25-20
]

Jackie, Peetie and Billie splashed so much paint on the ’gator, even
putting some in his eyes, that the bad chap was glad enough to run
away. He looked like a broken piece of the rainbow. Uncle Wiggily
easily got down out of the fallen tree, and he felt so happy, at
saving his souse, that he danced a jig around the paint pots with the
doggies and the goat. “Well I never!” exclaimed Nurse Jane. “This is
a funny way to paint a red bungalow green, Uncle Wiggily!” But the
bunny gentlemen only laughed.

  And if the slice of bread doesn’t try to jump out from under the
  butter, and let the jam fall on the table cloth, the next pictures
  and story will tell how

[Illustration: Pig selling roses]

  UNCLE WIGGILY PICKED SOME MAY FLOWERS. HE DIDN’T KNOW WHERE THEY
  CAME FROM, BUT THE ANIMAL BOYS DID. OH, WHAT A SHAME! JUST LOOK!

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily visits Wibblewobble]

One day Uncle Wiggily Longears stopped at the home of Mrs.
Wibblewobble, the duck lady. Nurse Jane Fuzzy Wuzzy had asked the
bunny gentleman to call and return an egg she had borrowed. Uncle
Wiggily found Mrs. Littletail, the rabbit, Mrs. Bushytail, the
squirrel, Mrs. Bow Wow, the dog lady, and Mrs. Kat, the pussy lady,
at Mrs. Wibblewobble’s house. “Is this a party?” asked Uncle Wiggily.
“Oh, no,” said Mrs. Wibblewobble, “but I could make it one if I had a
few nice May blossoms.” Uncle Wiggily said he’d get some.

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily looking for May flowers]

Uncle Wiggily went into the early, green spring woods. He began
looking at the ground. Pretty soon he met Jimmie Wibblewobble, the
duck, and Curly and Floppy Twistytail, the two piggie boys. “What are
you looking for, Uncle Wiggily?” asked Floppy. “For some nice May
flowers to make pretty bouquets so Mrs. Wibblewobble can have them
for her little reception party,” answered the bunny. “But, boys, I am
sorry to say I haven’t yet found a single blossom.” The animal boys
felt sad for Uncle Wiggily.

[Illustration: Pigs and duck]

“Hey, fellows, I know how we can have some fun!” quacked Jimmie the
duck. “How?” asked Curly, while Floppy balanced a stick and a leaf
on the end of his nose, like a juggler in the circus. “Uncle Wiggily
will never find any flowers in the woods. It is too early,” said
Jimmie. “But near my house are a lot of ladies hats, with some dandy
flowers on. We could take some off, plant ’em in the woods where
Uncle Wiggily would find them and then he’d be happy.” The two piggie
boys said that would be fun. Now let’s see.

[Illustration: Pigs and duck]

Jimmie Wibblewobble, the duck boy, meaning no harm, of course, led
Curly and Floppy back to his house. Mrs. Wibblewobble and her animal
lady friends were so busy talking that they did not notice what the
boys did. The boys began pulling the pretty blossoms off the hats.
“We’ll stick them in the ground among the trees, and lead Uncle
Wiggily to them,” quacked Jimmie. “He’ll think they’re real blossoms
and he’ll pick a big bouquet.” Floppy laughed and Curly said: “We
ought to put perfume on ’em and make ’em smell.”

[Illustration: Pigs and duck]

After Jimmie, Curly and Floppy had pulled from the ladies’ hats
as many of the make-believe flowers as they wanted, the animal
boys hurried off to the woods again. “I’ll get my mother’s perfume
atomizer bottle and we’ll make the flowers smell as sweet as real
ones,” grunted Floppy. And in the picture you see how the animal
chaps planted the artificial flowers in the green moss of the woods.
Floppy sprayed some lovely perfume over them, so that they smelled
just as real as anything. Meanwhile Uncle Wiggily was out of luck.

[Illustration: Rabbit, pigs, and duck]

After Jimmie the duck, and the two piggie boys had planted the
make-believe flowers, and had sprayed them with perfume, they ran
off through the trees and found Uncle Wiggily. “Oh, come with us!”
quacked Jimmie. “We know where there are some lovely flowers you
can pick for the reception party at my house!” “It is very kind of
you boys,” said the rabbit gentleman. “I have been looking all over
for May flowers, but could not find any.” And when Jimmy, Curly and
Floppy pointed to the blossoms the bunny felt very jolly.

[Illustration: Rabbit, pigs, and duck]

Uncle Wiggily began picking a bouquet of what he thought were real
flowers for Mrs. Wibblewobble. He filled one paw with a big bunch
of the artificial blossoms. “How nice and sweet they smell!” said
the bunny, holding a rose to his nose. “We are glad you like them,”
quacked Jimmie, politely. “Don’t let Uncle Wiggily see that perfume
bottle, Floppy!” grunted Curly in a whisper. Floppy hid the atomizer
behind his back and Uncle Wiggily kept on picking flowers. All this
while Mrs. Wibblewobble and the ladies were talking.

[Illustration: Uncle Wiggily with flowers]

After Uncle Wiggily had picked a big bouquet of what he thought were
sweet-smelling May flowers, he took them to Mrs. Wibblewobble. The
ladies were still talking. “Please accept these May posies which I
picked in the woods for you, Mrs. Wibblewobble,” said Uncle Wiggily
with a polite bow. “Oh, how lovely and kind of you!” quacked the duck
lady, as she took the blossoms. “And how lovely they smell. Just like
perfume!” All of a sudden Mrs. Littletail looked out in the room
where the hats had been left. Oh, dear!

[Illustration:

  LANG CAMPBELL
  5-2-20
]

“Oh, Uncle Wiggily!” quacked Mrs. Wibblewobble, as she looked at
her hat. “Oh, Uncle Wiggily! How could you be so cruel?” The bunny
gentleman did not know what to say. Just then Mrs. Littletail saw
the animals running away. “Did they show you where to get the May
flowers, Uncle Wiggily?” asked the rabbit lady. “Yes,” answered Mr.
Longears. “Oh, the little rascals!” quacked Mrs. Wibblewobble. “It
wasn’t Uncle Wiggily’s fault at all, and we can sew the flowers back
on our hats.” And this they did.

[Illustration: When you have finished reading this nice little book,
perhaps you would like to read a larger volume about Uncle Wiggily.

If so, go to the book store and ask the Man for one of the Uncle
Wiggily Bedtime Story Books, they have a lot of Funny Pictures in and
31 stories—one for every night in the month. If the book store man
has none of these volumes ask him to get you one or send direct to
the Publishers,

  A. L. BURT COMPANY.
  114 EAST 23rd STREET
  NEW YORK CITY
]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK UNCLE WIGGILY'S JUNE BUG
FRIENDS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
